
<!--
.. title: How to get your code in and out of PythonAnywhere
.. slug: FTP
.. date: 2015-05-13 14:35:28 UTC+01:00
.. tags:
.. category:
.. link:
.. description:
.. type: text
-->



Whether it's uploading your code once and for ever, or downloading your code to
move somewhere else, or trying to keep your local dev environment in sync with
PythonAnywhere, we're keen to help you get code in and out. Try out the
solutions below, and remember we're always here to help! The "Send feedback"
button is just a short click away...


##Can I use FTP / Filezilla?


The short answer is that you cannot use FTP or Filezilla unless you have a
paying account. But don't despair! There are other, mostly better ways of
getting your code in and out of PythonAnywhere


##Using a code sharing site like GitHub or BitBucket


The best way is to use a source code control system (or VCS) like Git,
mercurial or subversion. You can then "push" your code up to
[GitHub](https://github.com/) or [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/), and then
"pull" it down to PythonAnywhere, or push from PythonAnywhere to Bitbucket or
[GitHub](//www.github.com/). You also get all the benefits of using a version
control system, the ability to go back to older versions of files, etc.

Follow the instructions on either Github ("[create a
repo](https://help.github.com/articles/create-a-repo)") or Bitbucket
("[Bitbucket
101](https://confluence.atlassian.com/display/BITBUCKET/Bitbucket+101)"), both
of which have excellent documentation, for how to get started.

On PythonAnywhere, use a **Bash Console**, and you'll be able to access `git`
(or `hg` or `svn`) and [clone your repository](/pages/ExternalVCS), and push
and pull. You can also generate an SSH keypair using `ssh-keygen`.

If you want to clone all of your [GitHub](//www.github.com/) repositories, you
might want to take a look at Bede Kelly's
[cloneall](https://asciinema.org/a/10136).


##Uploading a zip file


The alternative is to compress your project folder on your own PC, and upload
it using the **Files tab**. Then, open a **Bash console** to run `unzip` to
decompress the zipfile you've uploaded.

If your file is too large to easily upload, you may have to split it up into
chunks and stitch them back together afterwards. Split the files locally into
50mb files:

    split -b 50m huge_file

Upload them to PythonAnywhere, then get them back together with:

    cat file1 file2 file3 > huge_file_on_pythonanywhere


##SFTP (paying accounts only)


You can use SFTP, which is a form of FTP-over-SSH. This is restricted to paying
users only. Use your normal username and password and connect to
ssh.pythonanywhere.com.

From the command-line, use `sftp <username>@ssh.pythonanywhere.com`.

Filezilla also supports SFTP; just use `ssh.pythonanywhere.com` as the server
(if you're entering it into the box at the top of the main screen, you'll need
to specify SFTP there too, like this: `sftp://ssh.pythonanywhere.com`.)

**NOTE:** If your `.bashrc` outputs *anything* to the console when you connect,
the SFTP connection will not work. SFTP from the command line will give you an
error like this: `Received message too long 1651664225` and Filezilla will give
an error like `Connection timed out after 20 seconds of inactivity`.


##Rsync (paying accounts only)


Similarly, to send a file or directories from your local machine to your
pythonanywhere console, run the following code from your local machine:

    rsync -avzhe ssh <LOCAL_FILE_PATH> <USER_NAME>@ssh.pythonanywhere.com:<DESTINATION_DIRECTORY>

To grab a file (or directories) from your pythonanywhere account to your local
machine, run the following from your local machine:

    rsync -avzhe ssh <USER_NAME>@ssh.pythonanywhere.com:<PYTHONANYWHERE_FILE_PATH> <LOCAL_DIRECTORY>

If you have a another server somewhere, you could also rsync between that and
PythonAnywhere. PythonAnywhere will only listen to port 443, but to configure
your own server to listen on say 2220 or whatever port for an incoming ssh
connection:

    rsync -ravzhe 'ssh -p 2220' <DIR_PATH_ON_PYTHONANYWHERE> <USER_NAME>@<YOUR_SERVER>:<DESTINATION_PATH>
